please welcome ceo at trip actions ariel
cohen
[Music]
okay hi everybody i'm really happy to be
here face to face i'm sure that you
heard these comments from everybody uh
but it's fun it's fun to be here
together and it's pretty much you know
what leap actions is all about it's
about bringing people together and
meeting uh so i'm excited to be here and
you can see on this headline it's kind
of a you know i know that a lot of
people here are starter people and it's
kind of scary right you go up with your
revenue
and suddenly in one day you are losing
all of it right so so think about that
and this is kind of the story that i
mean that i'm planning to share with you
today
so you know i thought of like
trying to give you some of our
experience and almost like a recipe to
uh how to deal with a crisis and of
course crises are different and this
crisis is extremely unique right so for
us
on one day giving you some context where
for five years four and a half years
we're going like this right so every
week we're going at a five to ten
percent uh growth rate on a weekly basis
for quite some time
and over one night we lost all of our
revenue all of our usage that was merged
to march 2020 so what do you do now
and
i think that uh there is something that
is super super important to always have
not related to crisis but i think that
it's the only way that it will help you
while you're dealing with a crisis and
it's really having a well-defined vision
and mission this is super super super
critical and the reason that it's
important
when everything goes down you'll need to
convince a lot of people to continue to
being there with you your customers your
employees your investors you will really
need to convince them to stick around
and without a proper vision and mission
it will be very hard to do that um
then another important thing and i only
recently
realized that is to define the the the
crisis right crisis is all different uh
this was actually our third big crisis
as a company it's by far was our biggest
one but crisis tends to be different and
to understand hey this is a pandemic
this is not a financial crisis and how
long will it take was super important
so
you know people that were part of the 01
crisis needed to deal with the fact that
they couldn't raise money we actually
knew that that's not a financial crisis
which impacted our activities uh and our
actions
there is another important thing we kind
of realized that if it's a pandemic
let's try to understand what pandemic
means and how long
does it take and i'll talk more about
that
and then just use the opportunity right
use the opportunity and think what does
it mean for you and how can you actually
come out of this stronger
and that's just to give you an idea
today our revenue is 30 percent higher
than what we had in march 2020 so just
pre-covered and we are today going every
week at a 10 rate okay so you can
understand how much
thank you so you understand how much uh
you know uh we kind of went you know
nicely through that and the last thing
don't have a plan b i'm always like
that's something you know your investors
your everybody will want you to have a
plan b
don't have a plan b it's very hard to
plan for a crisis if you could plan for
a crisis you would not have the crisis
right so just don't don't have a plan b
have an extremely strong team that can
go with you through the crisis
so i've mentioned vision and leading to
the vision so what's our vision at the
trip actions so for us
it's almost the opposite of a of
everything that was going on in kovit it
is about meeting face to face it's
bringing people together and we are
trying to do it in the more most
efficient way possible and creating a
really an amazing experience for
everybody using trip actions and
something that was important for us for
day one is to lean on talent to make
sure that we have the best people around
to uh you know to support our customers
to build our product and that's super
super helpful when you're facing with a
with the challenges
and eventually we are trying to build
the biggest the strongest the best
travel platform on the planet that's
what we're trying to do we're trying to
do it globally uh and having all of the
ingredients there business travel
corporate payments uh expense management
personal trips for our customers and so
on so it's a massive platform play that
we've been building for quite some time
so covered
so as i was saying we were doing this
going really really fast and i remember
kind of end of february beginning of
march i was actually in seattle i was
flying there for a for a business trip
and an extremely important meeting there
got cancelled right because of kovid so
i'm kind of i actually never uh i was
actually in the airport never left the
airport came from sfo landed realized
that the meeting got cancelled turned
around and got back to you know to san
francisco and on that airplane i
remember that i knew uh we needed a
completely different plan like all of
our plans around growth hiring our
biggest challenges up until a minute ago
well completely irrelevant we need a
completely different plan and we need to
act fast and this is before we saw the
revenue uh going down to nothing right
this was just the
hey we are selling travel we are a
travel company people are not going to
travel right we need some we need a
completely different a different plan uh
so we had kind of i would say a crazy
two weeks
of eventually looking at this and
actually looking at this graph and this
graph is real like this is like over
less than a week our entire revenue or
entire usage of the platform going down
to zero so it's definitely scary right
but
uh you definitely need to think okay
what does it mean for you what do you do
next right and i was talking about
defining the crisis and the first thing
that we did
was actually to lean into the immediate
mission
so we had customers we had users we
started to play with what if
so what if all of travel is getting
cancelled again that's before it was
happening so what if you will not be
able to get back home like our customers
will not be able to get home what
happens then what if everybody will need
to work from home right so everybody
needs to work from home it means that
our global call center needs to be
mobilized to work from home but what if
it happens on the same time so at the
same time we need to mobilize our entire
call center you'll talk about hundreds
of people globally and then they need to
support a lot of travelers that we'll
need to get back home and i remember
that wednesday up until today remember
the day
when uh the u.s announced that they are
shutting down the borders and there are
two days to get back home right so you
had
companies customers users calling you
frantically basically telling you i need
to get back home
so
you can see this tweet that's from back
then and this is at the end of this week
i remember that the entire team was
exhausted like basically after bringing
everybody back home but it was also a
proud moment right it was a moment that
we knew
that we you know we took care of our
customers
and
i think at that point there was okay so
what's now okay we kind of stabilized it
a little bit so what's now
and you cannot have this magical
thinking
all of you were in there in kovid and
everybody experienced it differently
but i know that a lot of people thought
you know maybe in june the summer is
coming and maybe in june everything will
be great people will get back to travel
and of course if that was our thinking
our entire execution our entire behavior
would be different right
so it was really important not to have
this magical thinking you know
everything will be okay in three months
and kind of look back into history
and when you look at pandemics right and
you seek for advice you ask experts it
usually lasts for at least two years and
it usually have three waves so we
actually knew that even if in june july
we'll see the cases going down and
people coming back to travel a little
bit uh we actually knew that it doesn't
mean anything you know from our
execution perspective and that was super
important because thinking about it as a
two years thing impacted our entire
thinking about innovation raising more
money we raised more money in may 2020
uh
how much how many people do we want to
employ how do we go to market and so on
so leaning into the mission so
the first question that we ask if we are
if we can innovate
what our customers need from us
and we always had this capability of
showing our customers where their
employees are and to have the ability to
communicate with them
but then we said what if we can
correlate this to the covet information
to the cdc data to other information
sources
so we've created this this dashboard and
then capabilities for customers that
allow them to come and say hey it's the
middle of march i see that cases are
going like this in italy and i have four
travelers that are planning to travel
there so i can cancel their trip their
trip right now i can also completely
take it out of policy
this thing became irrelevant two three
months down the road because nobody was
traveling but today that's how customers
are managing their travel they're
looking at the production factors
through our system they're looking at
coveted regulation right i'm flying to
the uk do i need to quarantine or not
right all of these things are super
important today and these are things
that we actually developed a year and a
half ago so very very important right
now for companies that are managing
travel
but you also need to have some hope
right and we need it i know that i
personally needed to have some hope i
know that our employees needed it and uh
and our customers use those just
everybody you guys uh so we came up with
this past the airplane idea this was
kind of towards the end of march where
everybody were in their houses and
quarantining and we basically said what
if we can build these airplanes and like
just having people kind of through
social media kind of moving it from one
place one person to the other and that
was amazing like people got engaged with
that you could see it all over twitter
it got well you know 12 million
kind of followers it was really an
amazing campaign
but for us for our team it was not even
a campaign it was kind of let's get it
going like let's do something let's say
let's have some progress here so again
that's something that like looking back
i'm super super proud of this thing it's
not business related it's not like it
was not related to our call center or
money situation or laying off employees
it was just let's have a little bit of
hope here
and then the opportunity so sadly in uh
in march we also uh let go of 25 of our
employees right so that was a massive
moment for us
but then what do you do next right if
you just rent this massive layoff do you
have a future do you want to maybe
hibernate the company maybe take it to
20 30 employees just develop technology
and come back uh you know when covet is
done right that was part of the
discussion that we have that was part of
the possibilities
um
but i remember that i actually uh i knew
a lot about amazon and then netflix in
all one and back then you know over like
few months
they you know you look at amazon their
share price back then went down to seven
bucks um their cash situation they only
had
six months
of cash you know one that's amazon right
and this is where they lean into
innovation you know aws i'm sure that
probably 90 of the of the people who are
using aws this is when they lean into
aws to amazon prime to kindle so i
remember that i was talking both with
our team and our investors and i was
saying you know what this is our amazon
moment this is when we can accelerate
our market penetration and we knew
something important
postcode it will be very hard for
companies to manage travel to manage
expenses in the way that they used to do
that right in the if you look at the
normal system out there you're usually
ending up calling a travel agent and
with a lot of regulation with safety
implications you cannot do it like that
right so we actually knew that we have
an opportunity so we started to go up
market we started to go globally uh this
is in april 2020 we've learned how to
sell trip actions right now but we also
introduced a lot of new products
so liquid was the first one we actually
released liquid
at the end of february 2020 right so
just before covered so now you know we
still don't have traction there should
we put it on pause and not continuing
with that or should we double down on
liquid and we said let's double down but
let's take it all the way to completely
to challenge the idea of managing
expenses to completely coming and saying
hey you swipe your credit card whether
you're in a trip whether you're you're
home buying a you know so many
furnitures you swipe your credit card
and that's the last thing that is
happening in the organization uh around
expense management right and obviously
when travel comes back customers are
thinking about it as a tne so obviously
you get the attachment so we actually
doubled down on liquid we've released
the no expense idea in a september last
year
liquid today has more than 400 customers
and it is growing at the 40
rate every month right so that's how
much liquid is penetrating the market
right now and we've just launched it in
emea right so very important part of our
strategy
then team travel there was the question
so
what happens after kovid right so people
will come back to the offices will not
come back to the offices how people will
behave afterwards
and we thought that remote walk
introduced an opportunity we actually
thought that if a lot of people are
walking remotely if some are doing
hybrid
teams meetings like off sites the stuff
that we are doing here will become more
important probably bigger than before
copied so we've introduced team travel
right and team travel is how you can a
book your entire trip for an entire team
in the most efficient way
and then lemonade obviously
personal trips came back way faster than
business trips
so for us we said we have this install
base we have this amazing product we
know that people like it so can we bring
it to our users to people that used to
use us for business travel can we offer
them access to lemonade and today you
come to our platform only if you're a
clip actions customer and you get
amazing prices that you can actually not
see outside you get all of the
inventories that are out there in one
platform and support from one vendor
which is us so
lemonade is actually going faster than
liquid it's going at a fifty percent
rate month over months right now
and lastly we recently uh
bought a acquired reading makai which is
the leading vip white gloves travel
agency actually on the planet
and we thought if we can connect that
level of service that is really designed
for the sea level for executive
assistance to our technology we are
basically getting the best solution that
that is out there so for sea levels that
are using us there is a slightly
different ui it's very high handy
different price point
but on one side they're using three
factions the technology the booking tool
all of the back office on the other side
they're getting agents travel agents
that know how to service you uh in kind
of a white glove
gloved way so this was a massive
acquisition for us we uh paid 260
million dollars for it and we did it as
cove it was going right so think about
like the uh how much we believed the
traveller you know will come back
and let's see let's see how our belief
is going so this is actually from a week
ago and you can see that from a travel
usage perspective and this is a without
reading makai we are pretty much in the
same numbers that we were uh in march or
february 2020 so we basically got back
to the same place
we are making more money today because
all of the things that i've mentioned
earlier so that's why our revenue is is
way higher uh but even these numbers
yesterday
was our best day in terms of bookings
credit cards revenue in the history of
the company that was yesterday and
usually mondays are very strong so that
definitely requires this
so you know we came in to covet with one
product business travel
and we are coming out of kovit with
business travel with personal trips
with white glove service corporate
payments
spend management and team travel right
so that was the decision that we made
back then that was
okay we have a problem we can raise
money right so we knew that let's double
down right that was the decision back
then and that's what we've been doing
and you can also see it from a
customer's perspective so
we went into covet with around 2.1
billion dollars of travel budget under
management so this is how much
corporations we're spending to our
platform
uh today we have more than five billion
in the platform
um you know in the last six months we
added customers like heineken netflix
acom primark right so very much big
enterprises globally and all of them are
using us right now for travel as well so
people are definitely getting back to
travel and definitely massive growth
probably in the worst time ever to grow
a travel company
so this is kind of a good summary of the
year right we started 2020 extremely
strong launched in emea launched liquid
coverage happened
needed to run layoffs immediately raised
money
uh to make sure that we have enough
money to run through these two years uh
went through this entire process
ending the year ending 2020 we're doing
an app round getting to five billion
dollar valuation at the year of
covid and that kind of tells you that
when people are getting actually into
the data into the numbers this thing
makes a lot of sense for them so when we
are saying hey we are 30 stronger than
where we are
this is not the business travel industry
this is us
growing taking share and now we are way
stronger than when we were at the
beginning of
uh you know of the year
so you know
key takeaways uh
i think really the most important thing
have a clear vision right have a clear
vision for your company you can update
it from time to time right you can
update your mission you can check is
that still is this thing still relevant
the amount of time
the times that in the last two years i
was telling people in board meetings uh
in employees they all hands hey guys we
are a travel company right the amount of
time that i needed to say that uh
was probably endless and this was
important right this is what kept
everybody uh going with the same mission
not not trying to imagine maybe we've
done a maybe with liquid it was a pivot
it was not a pivot this this was our
second product relevant for tne right
and having one clear vision really make
sure that nobody is starting to imagine
maybe we're going there maybe we'll go
there and so on
define the crisis more than defining the
crisis act quickly uh we are probably
the first silicon valley company and one
of the first ones in the us to run
layoffs
and of course back then everybody on the
press were after us right but you need
to do your thing right you need to
manage your company your business your
vision right so definitely define your
own thing
uh believe in it and just do it uh again
leaning into the mission once you're
doing stuff like that you really need to
again convince everybody and then
finding the opportunities uh of course
it's a cliche everybody are mentioning
it
but like using the crisis and really
finding the opportunities there is super
super important
and the last thing that i will say in
this context you know i'm sure that all
of you are right like i'm talking about
the covet crisis right and so why would
you care
but at least in the six years of trip
actions as i said earlier we had three
crises right so
um i think that companies startups will
always have a crisis right and of course
this crisis will be different but i
actually think that the same ingredients
are there if you want to uh run through
this successfully so i would say that's
kind of my maybe my takeaway i hope that
like sharing it with you
was helpful and thank you for coming and
listening to me
[Music]
you